Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
In this month's program, we'll learn how even as imperfect people, we can imitate
Jehovah's way of thinking.
Jim McCabe went from cross-examining the teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses to becoming one.
In a new episode of Where Are They Now, Jim shares how he is legally defending Jehovah's
Name.
Years ago, hundreds of young brothers in South Africa were imprisoned for their neutrality.
What risks did they take to feed themselves spiritually?
And our music video portrays the higher kind of love that we express through our brotherhood.
This is JW Broadcasting.
What do you think?
Is it possible for an imperfect human to elevate his or her thinking to agree with God?
God's thinking?
And if so, how can we do this?
To answer those questions, let's consider several verses in the Bible book of Isaiah.
First, let's read Isaiah chapter 40 verses 12 through 14.
Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand?
And taken the measurements of the heavens with the span of his hand?
Who has gathered and a measure the dust of the earth?
Or weighed the mountains in the balances?
And the hills in the scale?
Who has taken the measurements of the spirit of Jehovah?
And who can instruct him as his advisor, with whom did he consult to gain understanding?
Or who teaches him in the path of justice?
Or teaches him knowledge, or shows him the way of true understanding?
What do we learn from these verses?
That Jehovah's thinking, his wisdom, his understanding of the earth's physical makeup and processes,
and his intimate knowledge of each one of us imperfect humans is elevated.
So much so that it may seem far beyond our reach.
But the good news is that Jehovah is not inaccessible, and neither is his thinking.
How do we know?
We know because of a beautiful Bible prophecy found in Isaiah.
In fulfillment of this prophecy, Jehovah is drawing millions of imperfect humans to himself,
and in the process he's elevating us and our thinking.
Please follow along as I read Isaiah chapter 2, verses 2 and 3.
As we read and discuss the verses, you'll see that Isaiah paints a simple but vivid prophetic
picture.
In the final part of the day, or as the footnote helps us to appreciate, in the last days,
that is, in these days, the time in which you and I are living.
In the final part of the days, the mountain of the house of Jehovah will become firmly
established above the top of the mountains, and it will be raised up above the hills,
and to it all the nations will stream.
What does the mountain of the house of Jehovah represent?
Pure worship.
In other words, in the last days, pure worship would become prominent, plainly evident, and
available for all who are seeking the truth.
The prophecy indicates that honest-hearted people from all of the nations would climb
the mountain of pure worship.
Why would they do so?
Verse 3 continues.
Many people will go and say, come, let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah to the house
of the God of Jacob.
He will instruct us about his ways, and we will walk in his paths.
For law, or as the footnote helps us to appreciate, instruction for law or instruction will go
out of Zion and the word of Jehovah out of Jerusalem.
So, in the last days, we are told that people from all of the nations would go to the mountain
of pure worship in order to be instructed by Jehovah.
Did you notice the expression of determination made by these ones?
We will walk in his paths.
What a beautiful prophecy.
But how does this relate to our question?
What does it have to do with elevating our thinking to agree with God's thinking?
Well, what happens when you climb a mountain?
It takes effort, it can be tiring, you may stumble, you may even suffer some injury while
you claw at, but if you persevere, what's the situation when you get to the top?
Or elevated, you have a view that you would never have experienced if you hadn't made
the claw hunt.
The reward makes it worth the effort.
In a spiritual sense, that's true of Jehovah's elevated worship.
If we're willing to put forth the effort to make the claw hunt, that is, to learn Jehovah's
standards and apply them in our lives, pure worship elevates us.
Why?
Because Jehovah's laws and principles are elevated.
If we cultivate a love for Jehovah's standards, our thinking becomes elevated.
We begin to think more in harmony with Jehovah's thoughts.
Typical is the experience of one young person who wrote,
I lived a life of immorality and drunkenness.
I had sexual diseases.
I also sold drugs and just didn't care about anything.
As this young person studied the Bible, climbed the mountain.
She made changes in order to conform to God's standards.
As a result, she was elevated by pure worship.
Now she says, I enjoy peace of mind, self-respect, a hope for the future, a real family, and best
of all a relationship with our father, Jehovah.
Yes, by climbing the mountain of pure worship, she elevated her thinking to agree with God's
thinking, and in the process, she has been elevated by pure worship.
What have we learned so far?
That it is possible to elevate our thinking to agree with God's thinking.
We do that by climbing the mountain of pure worship.
Of course, the mountain of pure worship is what elevates us.
We're not elevated on our own merit.
Jehovah blesses our effort to make the client.
Remembering that helps us to be humble as we lovingly assist others who are also climbing
the mountain.
One more reminder.
If we abandon Jehovah's standards, we quickly lose our elevated standing and perspective,
so it's important to hold tightly to Jehovah's elevated way of doing things, even when
it's not easy to do so.
But what if we do make a serious mistake or become involved in serious wrongdoing?
We lose altitude.
It's like a free fall at the time.
Perhaps when you first heard the theme of this discussion, another verse in Isaiah came
to your maud.
Let's read Isaiah chapter 55, verse 9.
So Jehovah tells us forth rightly that his thoughts are higher than our thoughts.
What's the context of Jehovah's words?
Please notice the verses that proceed, verse 9, beginning in verse 7.
Let the wicked man leave his way and the evil man his thoughts.
Let him return to Jehovah who will have mercy on him to our God, for he will forgive
in a large way.
For my thoughts are not your thoughts and your ways are not my ways to clear Jehovah.
For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so my ways are higher than your ways and
my thoughts than your thoughts.
When Jehovah says that his thoughts are higher than our thoughts, he is talking about forgiveness.
He forgives repentant wrongdoers in a large way.
Truly, Jehovah's mercy is on a level that's challenging for us to comprehend.
After all, when we forgive a fellow human, it's a case of one sinner for giving another.
All of us realize that sooner or later we will need to have a fellow human forgive us.
But Jehovah, even though he never needs to be forgiven, forgives in a large way.
And in his mercy, Jehovah opens the floodgates of the heavens, showering down blessings
on those who return to him with all their heart.
That's the elevated view that you and I strive to imitate.
The August 2024 study edition of The Watchtower helped us to better appreciate Jehovah's
elevated thinking as reflected in his mercy and his willingness to forgive repentant wrongdoers,
even those who have committed serious sins.
For example, we discussed the case of the unrepentant wrongdoer in the congregation and
Carth.
His sinful course was so shocking that Paul said it was not even found among the nations.
Truly, this Christian man had abandoned Jehovah's elevated standards.
Because he was unrepentant, Paul instructed the elders to remove the man from the congregation.
And yet, perhaps only months later, Paul instructed the elders to kindly forgive and
comfort the man to confirm their love for him.
Why?
The discipline had yielded positive results, the man repented, and was welcomed back into
the congregation as a brother.
What good news, what a beautiful example of Jehovah's elevated thinking, and it serves
to assure any Christian who's fallen into serious wrongdoing, that it is possible
with Jehovah's help to get up, dust yourself off, and continue climbing the mountain of pure
worship.
And yet, the watchtower, frankly, acknowledged that some in the congregation may have been
reluctant to display a welcoming spirit.
Why?
Just like the older brother in Jesus' illustration of the lost son at Luke chapter 15,
verses 28 through 30, some faithful ones in the congregation may have felt resentment
toward the wrongdoer.
It's no different today.
When the elders determine that a repentant wrongdoer is allowed to remain in the congregation,
or one is reinstated back into the congregation, we might find it challenging to display a
welcoming spirit.
Especially if we were personally affected in some way by the wrongdoing.
In such a case, we could feel that we've been forgotten, that our personal feelings
are being ignored, or that Jehovah doesn't care about the damage inflicted by the repentant
wrongdoer.
We could even feel that Jehovah has failed us.
Luke can help us to have Jehovah's elevated view.
Consider a Bible example.
King David committed a serious sin when he took Bathsheba, the wife of Euryah.
Not only did he commit adultery, stealing the wife of another man, but he compounded
his sin by arranging for the death of Euryah, adultery, and murder.
Of course, Jehovah saw the whole ugly scene unfold.
How would he deal with David?
He arranged for Nathan to confront David.
Nathan used a powerful illustration that touched David's heart.
As a result, David repented.
How did Jehovah respond?
Rather than imposing the death penalty called for by the Mosaic Law.
This is what said at 2 Samuel 12, verse 13.
David then said to Nathan, I have sinned against Jehovah.
Nathan replied to David, Jehovah in turn forgives your sin.
You will not die.
Jehovah mercifully allowed David to live.
David continued to rule as king.
What about the victim?
What about Euryah?
Did Jehovah forget Euryah?
Please follow along as I read two verses.
The first is 1 Kings 15, verse 5.
For David did what was right in the eyes of Jehovah, and he did not turn aside from anything
that he had commanded him all the days of his life.
In the matter of Euryah, the Hittite.
The second verse is Matthew 1, verse 6.
Jesse became father to David the king.
David became father to Solomon by the wife of Euryah.
What's the point?
Did Jehovah forgive David?
Yes.
But Jehovah has never forgotten Euryah.
In the new world, Jehovah will execute perfect justice when he resurrects Euryah.
And how we all look forward to being there to welcome him.
What do we learn from this example?
We need to elevate our thinking to agree with God's.
Like Jehovah, we can experience the joy of giving by forgiving.
It's one of the most beautiful forms of giving there is.
We're confident that Jehovah and his infinite wisdom will undo any damage, physical, emotional
and spiritual.
We believe the wonderful promise at Isaiah chapter 65, verse 17.
For look, I am creating new heavens and a new earth.
And the former things will not be called to my heart nor will they come up into the heart.
That day is fast approaching when any pain, including painful memories that we've experienced,
will be completely undone.
Such experiences will not even be called to my heart.
What a blessed day that will be.
Can you see it?
Keep climbing.
Don't give up.
Remember, we have eternity in Vuhu.
And it's a view we will never experience if we don't climb the mountain of pure worship.
Jim McCabe's search for pure worship was unfulfilled until he accepted a Bible study
and came into the truth.
Today, his work in defending Jehovah's name proves to him that Jehovah will always support
his people.
Well, from the very beginning, when we started studying together, we were putting Jehovah
to the test.
But in reality, I think as we look back, we see Jehovah's testing us.
How much did we love Him?
How much did we want to serve Him?
If I hadn't put King Dementia's first, if I hadn't looked at Jehovah to take care of
us, I wouldn't have had any of these experiences.
Jehovah's hand is with his people.
In the legal field, we see it every day of our lives.
Well, I grew up in a big family of eight children.
My parents really valued education.
So I moved to San Diego and started attending law school.
That's the year that I met Melinda and we started dating.
By that time, we weren't really practicing Catholics.
We hadn't been given any reason to have faith.
That was one thing that really attracted us about the truth is we could see reasons
and see facts and evidence that built up a faith.
Jesus said, if you put the King Dementia's first, everything else will be taken care of.
Jehovah will take care of what you need.
I basically became a part-time lawyer and a full-time preacher.
We believed the promise and our lives became very much happier as a result.
We go out to ministry first and do other things later and even as our family grew.
That was kind of the way we raised them.
We worked with people who were fun people who really took an interest in our children.
We feel like we had several pioneer couple of friends who helped raise our children.
So our friends became their friends.
During the 1984-85, a letter went out to all congregations in the United States
asking if you could come to Bethel.
So we were so happy Jim got accepted to do construction.
But then of course the washier broke, everything seemed to happen at the same time.
Somehow again, Matthew 633 put the kingdom first.
Jehovah really, really took care of us.
I went to go out a two-week assignment.
The third day I was given a call from the brother who was the overseer for construction.
He'll Nazarov and he said, you've been reassigned to the legal department.
After Jim had done a number of temporary stints at Bethel,
we were invited to go for two weeks.
So we went with the boys.
We had such a good time.
After that, they started talking to me seriously.
Do you think you and your family could move to New York to live at Bethel and to work full time for us?
Shortly after arriving at Bethel, I was assigned to do some work overseas.
And Melinda was home with three boys.
It was something that was very difficult for me.
It was a challenge because in those days Brooklyn was really a third world country to us, Southern California residents.
But the blessings that have come as a result far outweigh any of the sacrifice.
Our oldest son was assigned to the factory at 16 and Jesse and Ryan, our other two sons,
worked with me in the laundry in the morning and then went to school.
And I think that's how to profound influence on our sons.
Bethelites, 19, 20-year-old Bethelites that associated with them and I think they've really enjoyed the blessings.
Eventually, we moved back to California, but I still work closely with the legal department.
One of the countries I worked with overseas was France.
In 1998, the government there decided to impose a 60% tax on all the donations the branch received between the years 1993 to 1996.
Soon after, they added a penalty to the tax making the entire amount 108% of the donations received.
No organization could pay that.
So we began litigating them.
At this point in time, our expert did not want to put Bible scriptures and tell the story of Jehovah's Witnesses who we are.
And that's why we litigate.
We don't litigate just to win cases, but we litigate as Jesus said in Matthew 10, 18 to make it turn out to be a witness.
So we had to put this in the brief.
He consented to put it in in 2011 when we won the case before the European Court of Human Rights.
The victory was on a violation of Jehovah's Witnesses' freedom of religion.
Jehovah won on the exact point he wanted, freedom of religion.
We knew it was Jehovah's Victory. It wasn't our victory.
Putting King Dimitris first has changed everything about our lives.
But I think to me, as a mother, the most important thing is that our sons, their wonderful wives and their children are all serving Jehovah.
And it's because they too put the kingdom first.
We're not a perfect family by any means.
But the blessings have been too numerous to even comprehend for us.
Jehovah has kept all his promises.
If you want to do more for Jehovah, but are unsure how, consider reading Jim's life story in the February 8, 1987 issue of awake.
In it, you'll learn how putting Jehovah to the test often leads to blessings.
One blessing we all experience is our Christian meetings.
They are essential.
But for hundreds of young South African brothers in the 1970s and 1980s, this lifeline was taken away.
Or was it?
What risk did they take to fill their spiritual needs?
In the 1960s, South Africa started to become increasingly involved in military conflicts in neighboring countries.
As a result, many of our young brothers were drafted for military service,
but because of their neutrality, the brothers were sent to prison.
Initially, when the brothers were sentenced to military prison, they were required to wear the army uniform,
which, of course, they refused to do.
The brothers felt that dressing in those clothes would identify them with the military prisoners and they took a stand on that.
They wore blue overalls and hence became known as the blue boys.
Everyone knew the blue boys were Jehovah's Witnesses.
In the early days, the brothers served their entire sentence, locked up in individual cells,
and that meant it very difficult for them to be able to meet together for worship.
One of the brothers who served during those days was David Caracas.
Just recently, David and I got together and we talked about some of our experiences in prison.
When I got into prison, we were not allowed to communicate at all.
We were strictly speaking in solitary confinement.
Their aim was to break the witnesses they said as much.
There were 64 cells, 32 on each side, and we used to purchase cells up on the bars above the door.
They made little mini hammock, as it were, and when everything was locked up and quiet,
then we would have the meetings.
We had a whole spiritual program.
We had a public talk, the Theocratic Ministry School,
and we had to contact the meeting just audibly enough to hear each other.
The brothers who went to prison in the 10 years or so before I went in had a big impact.
They laid the track as it were.
These brothers came out of prison with their faith strong,
they had a joyful countenance, and that was really inspiring.
As younger brothers like myself, we're preparing for our time in prison.
Things were a little different when I was in there.
We were in the prison blocks, but on the weekends, we were not locked up.
They left us alone, and so we'd bring our chairs or upturned buckets and sit in groups,
and we could have, most of our meetings that way, including the songs.
Some of the brothers had made their own musical instruments,
so the army was used to the idea of us singing various songs,
and so it didn't create as much attention.
Jeep of the足, run, he's my shepherd.
Also, if we were careful enough on a weekend,
we could bring in the materials for circuit assemblies and district conventions.
And have our conventions.
One of these pictures shows the brothers' costumes for dramas.
We'd have those at 6 o'clock in the morning
so that there was much less opportunity of being discovered.
The brothers loved that because they were able to really get into the spirit of the dramas.
That especially, we didn't want the corporals to see.
Amazing idea over kept a flow of spiritual food even going in behind prison walls.
Our meetings were very important, whether they were approved by the authorities or not.
This is one thing we would not let go.
The source of our strength was the spiritual food we had,
and the brotherly love that existed in the encouragement,
so the brothers made every effort to keep the meetings going.
And a good example of that was the memorial.
When I got into prison, we were asking the authorities,
please let us have the memorial.
And the answer was a definite no.
So we were ready to do it on our own, but we kept asking.
And eventually on the memorial day, that Tuesday afternoon,
suddenly they let us all out of ourselves, let us go and shower.
We weren't allowed to use the showers normally.
And they said, get dressed for your service tonight.
Ready.
And about seven o'clock we had the memorial in the little chapel there.
When we started singing the song in that little chapel, about 125 of us,
the volume was deafening.
And there was hardly a dry eye in the audience.
After the memorial, we got out.
I still remember the full moon rising in the East,
the over the military headquarters of South Africa.
And it was like a victory if it's Jehovah's will for us to have the memorial.
Nobody's going to stop it.
But it was the most memorable memorial of my life.
I can just imagine.
Meeting together in prison, as we did, made me realize that
the privilege of meeting together is not our gift to Jehovah as much as his gift to us.
Yes, yes.
And it really binds you together in a very special way.
It does.
We really need the meetings.
We need that spiritual strength.
Meeting attendants, I think especially since their time has become a treasured gift.
We don't easily want to miss our meetings and certainly to be there in person if we can.
Hearing other brothers express their faith and giving you an opportunity
to express your faith is a great source of encouragement, vital source.
It's not just a group of people who are learning the same thing.
This is a spiritual family.
And Jehovah knows that we need to draw together and encourage one another personally,
particularly, as Paul said, as the day draws near.
Let's take Brother Martin's advice and fully embrace our Christian meetings.
They really do encourage us as the day draws near.
But meetings do even more.
They prepare us for persecution by elevating our thinking to agree with God's.
If the thought of persecution makes you anxious, rest assured, you can stay faithful.
You'll have Jehovah's Holy Spirit and loving care just as Leo liangued it.
In 1958, there was pounding on the door.
So I opened up the place where pistols came in.
They put the cups on me right away.
Because of the opposition from the government, the preaching work became harder and harder.
We prepared our minds and hearts to be arrested.
How did the person recall scripture as well?
If you copy and copy it's more in your brain.
So with the help of the Holy Spirit, you could recall what you learned.
So the very day I was arrested, I printed Jehovah gone.
I will die faithful to you until death.
I knew that if I am in for the truth, Jehovah will protect me.
My case never went to trial.
I never got a caught caring.
We had the worst kind of food in prison.
They fed us ransom rice, 50% rice, 50% water.
First of all, days in prison, you can't eat it.
It was terrible, but after sometime you're hungry, you can eat it.
We had a sleep like sardines in the cell.
And five people had a sleep in it.
I was transferred to the art department.
It's freer than locked up in the cell the whole day.
And it helped me to survive.
I compiled my own daily texts in jail.
Every day I'll concentrate on one text, not to lose out on my spirituality.
I had about 20 scriptures that I went over and over again,
but I needed more scriptures.
So I printed Jehovah God.
I said, please give me more scriptures if possible.
In the center of the jail, there was a huge pile of books, magazines, photos.
I looked, wow, a Chinese book.
That's answering my prayer.
I need that.
But there were four policemen on God there.
I printed Jehovah God and let them go to lunch and leave this place alone.
The 1215 I went back.
I looked around, no more policemen, they went to lunch.
Make sure that nobody's hiding in the windows.
So I took the big risks.
I grabbed what I could, stuffed my shirt, and thanked Jehovah God.
They took more scriptures.
I took it out, wow, the complete works of Paul.
Jehovah God blessed me with that.
So I prayed to Jehovah God again.
Hi, am I going to keep it?
In jail, since there's nobody to talk to,
you've talked to Jehovah God all the time, and you get closer and closer to Him.
He gives you an answer in time.
So the answer was write it down on cloth.
I cut the white sheets into a size of a letter paper.
And when the four of the people in my cell saw sleeping, I was just copying it.
The God was making his rounds, and he stopped at my door.
I kept on copying right under his nose.
On the outside of the cell has all the five people's names there.
So he looked, oh, Leo Lang, he's the supervisor of the God Department.
He must be working overtime.
Oh, very good, very good.
I just copied right in front of him.
In prison, this one scripture helped me a lot, first Peter by seven, while you throw
all your anxiety on him that's on Jehovah, because he cares for you.
At first, I still have anxiety.
I'm 40% gone, but I still have 60%.
Okay, I pray again.
Next month is 50%.
Next month, 40%, 30%.
Then I knew when it's 0%, I stopped worrying over anything.
Took me one whole year to digest this, and I didn't have any anxiety.
But if you make an effort to do so, it could be accomplished.
I reached to this artist who just sat across me.
He said, when he goes out up 20 years, he's going to kill this one, kill that one, kill
this one.
I said, do you know what the Bible says?
If Bible says, you've got to pray for those that persecute you.
But in the end, he saw me out.
The policeman asked him, you sitting across Leo, what are you talking about?
Oh, he's preaching to me.
But he came back after saying that and bowed down to me.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Leo, forgive me, forgive me.
The chief of prison called me there.
He said, you broke the rules.
I said, yes, but if you knew what I preached to, you'd be happy.
You want to know what I preached to him?
Yes, so I told him, you're preaching to me now.
No, no, no, no, I'm not preaching to you.
I'm confessing to you what I preached to him, but the same thing, right?
I'm confessing to you.
And then I said, I'm preaching Christian love to them, not to hate you.
Since I did such a good work in prison to Captain Tomi,
it would be better for me to be transferred to the labor camp
than to be released in the city.
They could kill me anytime, because I was declared an enemy of the state.
So we arrived in the camp.
Besides this tea, we planted wheat, we planted rice.
I have to bend down 16 hours to cut the thing,
and then I have to bind it with a box.
After one day, my hands are all bloody.
The next day, it's worse because it hurts now.
Everyday I'll pray in the camp.
You can see millions of stars, wow, beautiful there.
I prayed all the time to Jehovah, to give me the wisdom,
the courage, and the strength to carry on.
So after six years, I prayed to Jehovah God.
I said, next seventh year, I will not be able to make it.
Remember me in a new system.
I was released after 21 and a half years, 15 years in prison,
six and a half years in the camp, all thanks to Jehovah God.
We served Jehovah in good times.
We served Jehovah in hard times.
And we were served Jehovah in very difficult times.
Jehovah God prepares us in advance for the Great Tribulation.
I never possible that.
So it'll be a hot for me also.
But I know what Jehovah's help, what Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
I will be able to make it you, be able to make it everybody.
It will make it if we depend on Jehovah 100%.
Wouldn't you agree that Brother Liang was not diminished?
Rather, he was elevated.
Leo's experience stresses the importance of relying on Jehovah now
so that we can fully trust him in more difficult times.
The prophet Amos was an excellent example of someone
who fully relied on Jehovah.
As we dig for treasures in the book of Amos,
consider how he boldly proclaimed Jehovah's message of judgment
against those who mistreated others.
There's so much to explore for family worship in the book of Amos, isn't there?
Yes, there is.
To see Jehovah discern the potential in such a humble, hardworking shepherd
and then entrust him to boldly preach a vital message,
it's such a fascinating account.
But there's so much more to the book of Amos.
It's filled to the brim with treasures about Jehovah.
Yeah, I can't wait to dive in.
Where should we start?
I came across a 2019 watchtower that has a great framework
for digging into the prophets.
Great tip.
Yes, it talked about developing our interests
in what the prophet wrote.
He gave a number of great questions to ask.
And then it also mentioned looking for what attitude or practices
Jehovah was looking to correct.
That's right.
So let's think about it.
Jehovah sends Amos to the northern 10 tribe kingdom,
and he begins by pronouncing judgment
against surrounding enemy nations like Syria,
Felicia, Edom, and others.
Looking at the map, I would imagine at first
the Israelites really liked where the message was headed.
But I wonder at what point they began
to realize that message was getting closer to home.
And not just close, bullseye.
Amos' message was meant for them the whole time,
but it's the why that's so outstanding.
Because of their false worship
and because they were mistreating people.
You know, there was a word that kept coming up
in those two opening chapters.
The word because.
So to help me keep track, I took a brief note.
Yeah, you know, I like taking some notes by hand too.
Yeah, and even though I usually take them electronically,
I find taking some notes by hand
makes a deeper mental impression
and helps me remember.
Yes.
So in this case, Jehovah was going to crush
all these surrounding nations, including Israel.
Because, among other things, they handed over exiles,
didn't remember the covenant of brothers,
pursued their brother with the sword,
refused to show mercy, ripped open pregnant women,
sold the righteous for silver, and the poor for sandals.
In other words, they were mistreating people.
So there's an attitude in practice
that Jehovah wanted to correct.
Mistreatment of people.
Doesn't that say so much about who Jehovah is?
He sent Amos to prophesy
because he deeply cares how people are treated.
Isn't that something?
And there's another layer to that.
It says something about Jehovah's sovereignty.
He's not a distant aloof on feeling God.
He noticed how individual people were being treated.
Oh, I thought about that too.
So as I was reading,
I kept looking for indications about Jehovah's feelings
about that.
I came across chapter five, verses 21 to 23.
Jehovah says, I hate.
I despise your festivals.
Even if you offer me whole-burn offerings
and gift offerings, I will find no pleasure in them.
Spare me the din of your songs
and let me not hear the melodies of your string instruments.
Those are powerful words.
It's as if Jehovah was saying,
even your attempts at worshiping me makes me sick.
Jehovah didn't just observe how people were treated.
It affected him emotionally.
So Jehovah noticed he felt, but then he acted.
He gave mistreated ones hope.
The introduction video mentioned Jehovah's promise
to raise up the booth of David.
Jehovah was reassuring people that the Messiah was coming
and that there would be no more mistreatment.
What a beautiful glimpse into Jehovah's personality.
But how does that affect us?
Since Jehovah cares so deeply about how people are treated,
I ask myself, what does Jehovah see when he looks at me?
What is my reputation with him?
Am I known for being kind, patient, merciful?
Or something else?
And how we treat people really stems
from how we feel about them.
Those nations severely mistreated people
because they did not love their fellow man.
So my feelings about people matter.
So what about when someone offends me
or does something unjust?
Even though I don't harm them physically,
how do I feel inside?
Do I harbor animosity?
Hold a grudge or put a ball between us?
Jehovah sees not just what I do, but how I feel.
That's a great point.
That also makes me think,
do I notice the disadvantage
or those who seem discouraged at the meetings?
They may be sitting in the corner by themselves.
Do I take the initiative to show compassion like Jehovah?
Nice application.
Jehovah also sees my reaction to suffering in general.
So I ask myself, am I indifferent?
Do I simply say, well, it's just the system we live in.
Jehovah doesn't see it that way.
He is highly sensitive to the suffering of others.
Am I?
I'm amazed at what a few steps can yield.
Using that 2019 watchtower,
looking for the attitude or practices Jehovah
was trying to correct, taking brief notes,
and especially looking for how Jehovah feels about matters.
There's still so much more.
How about this repeated phrase?
But you did not come back.
What does that teach us about Jehovah?
What can we learn from Amos
about being courageous when we're threatened?
And Howard Jehovah's perfect standards
highlighted by Amos vision of Jehovah standing on a wall.
Please, let's keep going.
We haven't even scratched the surface of the book of Amos.
How grateful we are that Jehovah in his wisdom
created an arrangement to end all suffer.
How can we show gratitude for Jehovah's wisdom?
Brother Harold Korkin will explain
in the following morning worship.
How do we define true wisdom?
It reflects sound judgment.
It's the ability to use knowledge
and understanding to make decisions,
to achieve a goal, to provide counsel, to avoid danger.
And related expressions are sensible, discrete, practical.
And when we think about Godly wisdom,
those are all attributes that Jehovah displays
in the absolute sense.
But now we have to be careful
that we stay close to the wisdom from above,
Jehovah's wisdom, and not be fooled
by the so-called wisdom of this world.
Now we can tell if something is foolish or wise,
by the way it all turns out.
Did it work or not work?
Did things get better or things get worse?
So what are some of the traits of wisdom from above?
Let's open our Bibles to James chapter three.
James chapter three, and we're gonna see
what true wisdom from above produces as works or results.
Verse 17, but the wisdom from above is first of all,
pure, then peaceable, reasonable, ready to obey
full of mercy and good fruits, impartial,
not hypocritical.
So we see some very good things come
when wisdom from above is used,
the results are peace and success.
So what we want to talk about for a few moments
is the need to be careful of how we use the right type
of wisdom in our day to day activities
and our various assignments in this branch territory.
And we want to be able to be sure not to put on due,
on due, focus, and importance on secular skills
compared to Jehovah's wisdom from above.
Notice how the insight book comments on this point
under the subject wisdom.
It says this, hence no matter how much of the world's
wisdom one might have by virtue of skill and trades,
shrewdness and commerce, administrative ability,
or scientific or philosophic learning,
the rule was, if anyone among you thinks he is wise
in this system of things, let him become a fool
that he may become wise.
And that ends that quote from the insight book
and the quote of 1 Corinthians 318.
So what do we learn from that?
Among our fellow workers in the Bethel family
and throughout this territory,
there are many who have excellent skills,
specialized skills, and we value that.
Jehovah is using them, but that should never become
the focal point for the key to success.
Now just illustrate that point.
Let's look at a Bible account that illustrates,
what does the wisdom from above point two
as the qualifications for someone to care for an assignment?
What are most important qualities?
Let's open our Bibles this time to the book of Acts,
Acts chapter six, and we're going to find
this problem has arisen.
The Greek speaking Jews, they are in Acts chapter six
are saying that their widows are being overlooked
in the food distribution.
So how do the 12 handle this?
What kind of wisdom did they use?
Well, you'll notice in the six eating verses
they didn't say we need to get someone
that really has a lot of secular experience in food
or distribution or getting product from point A to point B.
No, what did they focus on?
Notice verse three.
So brothers, select for yourselves seven reputable men
from among you, full of spirit, God spirit,
and wisdom, godly wisdom, that we may appoint them
over this necessary matter.
They focused on the spiritual qualities, didn't they?
And after praying and appointing these men,
the matter was handled successfully,
not based on secular experience, but on godly qualities.
Now let's take the same concept of not giving undo attention
to secular ways of doing things.
This time we're going to look at the contrast
between methods at work and methods that don't work.
This time we invite you to open your Bibles
to second Chronicles chapter 16.
And here we're going to be looking at an event
in King Asa of Judah's reign.
Now overall, King Asa was a very good king.
And earlier, one million Ethiopians had come against Asa
in Judah, and Asa and the people went to Jehovah
and said, we rely on you.
We lean on you, not on people.
Well, later in chapter 16 of second Chronicles,
Bayesha, the King of Israel, the Northern Kingdom,
starts building up the fortified city of Rema.
And this is a threat to Asa and to Judah.
So what does he do?
Is he wise or is he foolish?
Well, this time, according to verses two and three,
he goes to King Benadad of Syria and says,
I want to make a tree with you,
and I'm going to pay you a lot of gold and silver,
and I want you to attack Bayesha and Northern Israel
and to stop this threat.
Benadad takes him up on the offer
and verses four through six.
King Bayesha of Israel,
he stops building Rema.
Ah, success, correct?
Not so.
In the succeeding verses, beginning in verse seven,
seer by the name of Hanei,
comes to King Asa and basically says, what are you doing?
When the Ethiopians came, you relied on Jehovah.
And now with this threat from Bayesha,
you go to Benadad and notice how King Asa
is described in the latter part of Second Chronicles 169.
You have acted foolishly in this matter.
From now on, there will be wars against you.
Now, what do we learn from this account?
Taking a secular approach, a human approach
to problems or threats might work a little while.
Bayesha stopped building Rema, so, ah, that's better.
But the end result was there was more trouble from Asa
than before because he failed to exercise godly wisdom
and trust in Jehovah.
Well, let's take another aspect of this contrast
between worldy wisdom and the wisdom from above,
Jehovah's wisdom.
Now, the Bible says in the book of Proverbs 11 and verse 2
that wisdom is with the modest ones.
Those who recognize their limitations,
they don't think they have all the answers.
They're willing to work with other people.
They especially look to Jehovah.
But how does the world view a modest person?
It's summed up among other ways by a quote
from a Mr. William Haslet, a 19th century English writer,
and notice how he described modesty.
It is the lowest of the virtues
and is a confession of the deficiency it indicates.
He who undervalues himself is justly undervalued by others.
So the world says, don't be modest.
You've got to be strong.
You have all the answers.
Don't let other people make you think
that you don't know what you're doing.
But in contrast, notice this nice quote
from the 99 watched hour, December 1st, it said this.
Ability would also become a weakness.
If through it we developed an inflated opinion of ourselves
revealing a lack of modesty.
A gifted person and any who adulate him
may forget that Jehovah does not regard any who are wise
in their own heart, gifted, though they may be.
Wisdom is with the modest ones.
And that certainly proves, too, doesn't it?
Because a person who is modest, he's going to be reasonable.
He's going to create peace.
He's going to be ready to obey.
He's going to communicate with fellow workers.
They're going to enjoy working with him.
And he will have a pleasant time himself.
Wisdom from Jehovah is always better.
When you see good results from applying godly wisdom,
remember to thank Jehovah for his guidance.
It warms his heart to hear your gratitude.
Jehovah also appreciates it when we express love
for our brothers and sisters.
As shown in this month's music video,
entitled A High Her Kind of Love.
There was something that was said
that really did stick with me
that no matter where I am from,
I can be your family.
We are worldwide household
under the law of love
in the comfort of the caring arms
of Jehovah God above.
No sweeter place could I ever find myself in
than here with you all now.
I'm singing you are my sister,
you are my brother,
you are my father,
you are my mother,
and it is not by blood.
It's a higher kind of love.
You are my sister,
you are my brother,
you are my family,
and it is not by blood.
No, it's a higher kind of love.
It's a certain as the sunrise.
It's a written guarantee.
It's the promise of God's own son
that you will have a family.
Coming from all walks of life
praises to God we sing.
It doesn't matter where we are from,
it's doing his will at the key.
So we help each other out.
Oh, I'm a sister,
you are my brother,
you are my father,
you are my mother,
and it is not by blood.
No, it's a higher kind of love.
You are my sister,
you are my brother,
you are my family,
like no other,
and it is not by blood.
No, it's a higher kind of love.
Just the right time.
There was something that was said
that I have really seen
that no matter your family,
you are my father,
and it is not by
it's a higher kind of love.
You are my sister,
you are my brother,
you are my family,
like no other,
and it is not by blood.
No, it's a higher kind of love.
In this month's program,
we've learned that our thinking
can be elevated
if we test out Jehovah's support,
take full advantage of Christian meetings,
and lean on Jehovah
in times of trial.
In this month's postcard,
we're traveling to a country
beautifully situated
between the Pacific Ocean
and the Caribbean Sea.
Nicaragua.
Nicaragua boasts 68 types of ecosystems
that plants and animals live in.
Some believe the country's name
can be traced back to Nicaragua,
a late 15th-century chief
who lived on the shore
of present-day Lake Nicaragua
and the Spanish conquerors
arrived.
Lake Nicaragua is significant
for another reason.
It's believed it was originally
an open bay on the Pacific Ocean.
After a volcanic eruption,
a barrier formed,
turning the bay into two lakes.
The ocean fish trapped
in the larger of the two lakes
adapted as the salt water
slowly turned fresh.
For this reason,
the only fresh water lake
in the world that contains
oceanic animal life,
including sharks,
swordfish,
and tarpon.
Above water,
there's a chain of volcanoes
running through the country
from north to south.
Set on Negro,
a frequently visited volcano
is over 700 meters high
and takes about an hour
to climb.
Going down,
much faster if you
have a volcano board.
The truth arrived in Nicaragua
in 1934,
but spiritual momentum
built in 1945
when Francis and William Wallace,
fleshly brothers,
and graduates from the first
class of Gilead,
arrived.
They used a portable photograph
to play Bible-based recordings
to more than 700 people
in their first month.
Later that same here,
four more missionaries
came to advertise the kingdom.
Today, people in Nicaragua
continue to learn the truths
from the Bible.
In rural areas,
people are often hospitable,
accepting Bible-based publications
and willing to have
follow-up discussions.
Secular employment
often requires political
affiliation,
which our brothers
turned out.
To maintain a clear conscience,
they often choose jobs
that pay less,
but allow them to remain
neutral and united.
Despite this challenging
situation,
there is zeal for true worship
remains strong.
For example,
out of nearly 29,000 publishers,
there was an all-time
peak of 5,458
regular pioneers
in October, 2024.
Jehovah is certainly
blessing the loyalty,
self-sacrifice,
and simple lifestyle
of the friends in Nicaragua.
Truly, Jehovah's people
are elevated by pure worship.
The 39 publishers
in the Brig-Bay
mosquito congregation
send their warm love
to you.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.